COMP3297 Software Engineering School of Computing and Data Science
Department of Computer Science
Sprint 3 Task Sheet: BetaTrax
Sprint 3 Overview:
Sprint 3 builds on Release 1 and will extend BetaTrax:
· to add multiple tenant support to enable BetaTrax to be rolled out as a SaaS product for adoption by other development companies as noted in the Project Description.
· to calculate and report a simple metric to monitor the effectiveness of individual developers in fixing defects.
This new increment will be Release 2 of BetaTrax.
In addition, you will:
· add basic automated tests to your Django web service. · for the code that classifies developer effectiveness, write tests and use a coverage tool to demonstrate that
those tests satisfy the specified adequacy criteria. · assemble and deliver a definitive document set for the project.
During Sprint 3 we will offer tutorials and some lecture material covering: (a) testing, test coverage and test automation in Django and the DRF, (b) multi-tenancy strategies, (c) installation/setup of PostgreSQL needed for our single database, separate schema multi-tenancy approach, and (d) generating API documentation.
Extending BetaTrax
Multi-tenancy
As well as providing experience in multi-tenant SaaS applications, this extension will demonstrate the advantages of (a) Django's ORM in terms of the isolation it provides from the database, and (b) the ability to extend Django applications by means of 3rd-party apps and middleware.
As noted above, we'll take a single database, separate schema approach to multi-tenancy using the Schema feature provided by PostgreSQL. This will require you to switch database from SQLite to PostgreSQL. You will add multi-tenant support to your project by adding and using the django-tenants app:
https://django-tenants.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
Developer Metrics
Your client requires BetaTrax to measure the effectiveness of Developers in terms of the ratio of their defects reopened vs. defects they have reported as fixed. This will give a rough indication of whether a Developer is fixing defects successfully.
For each individual Developer, BetaTrax must track the number of defects reported by them as fixed, and the number of defects reopened by the Product Owner while currently the responsibility of that Developer. In response to an API call requesting the metric for a particular Developer, BetaTrax will classify and report on effectiveness as follows:

If the number of defects reported as fixed by the developer is < 20, report "Insufficient data", otherwise
if the ratio of defects reopened to defects reported as fixed is < 0.03125 (that is, 1/32), report "Good", otherwise
if the ratio of defects reopened to defects reported as fixed is < 0.125 (that is, 1/8), report "Fair", otherwise report "Poor".
Add automated tests for this code and, using the coverage.py tool, show your tests have satisfied the adequacy criteria of full statement coverage and full branch coverage.
Other Tasks for Sprint 3
Use Cases
Write use cases for the Release 2 extensions to BetaTrax.
Product Backlog Refinement
Add PBIs for Release 2 and, just as you did for Sprint 2:
o Split use cases into slices. o Write all slices as one or more User Stories. Include a Confirmation section and an Estimate for each of
those Stories.
If you have work that needs to be completed or revisited from previous sprints, those PBIs should also be included in the Backlog.
Sprint Planning
Decompose the stories and other PBIs into Tasks (Sub-Tasks if you are using Jira) to form a Sprint Backlog. Record the member responsible for completing each Task and add an estimate of effort-hours required to complete the Task.
Automated Testing
Design and implement representative conformance-directed automated tests as described below. You do not need to document and deliver these separately, however you should include them in your source code such that you can execute them in the Final Project Review as a demonstration. Consider them as exercises in writing automated tests rather than a full test suite for BetaTrax. You need only provide cases to test the following:
o a successful execution of each method available on each endpoint. You may do this either by using the DRF's APIClient to execute requests against endpoints, or by building requests with APIRequestFactory and calling the relevant views directly. We require only a single test for each endpoint method (again, each is just a representative case).
o the classification of Developer effectiveness as described above.

API Documentation Fully document your BetaTrax API. As noted, API documentation will be covered in class during the sprint. Note: If you are generating the documentation, please remove unnecessary clutter before delivery. Ensure the information included is appropriate for your API.
Implementation Implement and integrate the required extensions into your previous increment together with any additional work stemming from previous sprints. As before, deliver your source code by zipping the root directory of your Django project. Do not include a .git directory or similar. Include a Readme file outlining any limitations of your Sprint 3 executable with respect to the requirements.
Definitive Document Set
When we've had a chance to examine your Sprint 2 deliverables, we'll release a checklist covering the required contents of your Definitive Set and all other deliverables required for Sprint 3. The definitive documents may be revisions of any of your previous documents, or you may submit previous versions unchanged if you have no modifications to make. You will receive feedback on all your previous documents during this final Sprint.
Contributions
List team members' contributions to Sprint 3.
In addition, near the end of the Sprint, we will ask you to summarize your contribution to the project as a whole and to assess the contribution of each of your teammates. We will provide a form for this on Moodle. The assessment is done individually and is kept confidential.

Handin Method: Deadline:

Via Moodle, only one submission per team. April 27, 23:59

