COMP3297 Software Engineering School of Computing and Data Science
Department of Computer Science
Sprint 1 Task Sheet: BetaTrax
Sprint 1 Overview:
Your goal in Sprint 1 is to deliver an increment of BetaTrax that provides the most valuable functionality of a Minimum Viable Product. This will require you to design and implement main success slices of several of your use cases. In Sprint 2 you will implement the remaining functionality to take you to Release 1, a Minimum Marketable Product.
By delivering these first slices of end-to-end functionality you will drive down the risk associated with your lack of familiarity with Django and the Django Rest Framework, as well as further reducing the risk associated with any misunderstanding of requirements.
You will also get a clearer idea of your development velocity and the amount of work your group can commit to complete within a sprint timebox.
To better understand the needs of users, you will create throwaway UI prototypes in the form of wireframes for review during the Sprint.
Tasks for Sprint 1:
UI Prototypes
Create UI storyboards for BetaTrax to present and discuss with your client during the sprint. You won't implement these. Their purpose is to confirm your understanding of requirements and of the data that must cross the system boundary in API requests and responses. They should be Throwaway Prototypes showing rough UI layout and flow for each of the use cases you wrote in Inception. Wireframe sketches on paper are sufficient.
You are not required to prototype the UI of products under test through which testers submit defects to BetaTrax.
Create a Product Backlog
Your backlog is an ordered list of all work known to be required for the product, with highest priority PBIs at the top. Create your Product Backlog as follows:
o Split your use cases into slices. o For slices you will take into Sprint 1 (see below), write them as one or more
sprintable User Stories. Include a Confirmation section for each of those Stories. o It's common to use a spreadsheet-like format to record the product backlog, or to
use a 3rd party tool designed to manage backlogs. If you use a spreadsheet format, your column headings at this point should be:
ID Title Description Confirmation
Note: the Title and the Description ("As a...I want...So that" ) together form the "Card" part of the story.Required Slices
Functionality for each of the following will appear in one or may be divided across several of your Inception use cases. Actors are shown in square brackets. Take slices containing this functionality into Sprint 1:
o [Application under test] Submit a defect report in which the tester has supplied an email address. o [Product Owner] View, evaluate and accept the defect, recording Severity and Priority. o [Developer] View and take responsibility for a defect and fix it. o [Product Owner] Close the defect as Resolved.
This represents a simple traversal of the defect lifecycle in which the defect status passes through the following sequence, with email notifications sent accordingly:
New -> Open -> Assigned -> Fixed -> Resolved.
If you are confident in your team's ability to deliver the listed functionality within the sprint, you may break additional slices into stories, add them to the backlog and implement them in Sprint 1.
Remaining functionality
Place all remaining slices directly into the backlog as PBIs. You will break them into user stories ahead of future sprints.
Analysis: Domain Model
Work from your User Stories for Sprint 1 to identify a set of conceptual classes and construct a partial Domain Model in the form of a single class diagram for those stories. This will provide a basis for identifying resources and for the design of your Django model classes.
Implementation
For the PBIs you are taking into Sprint 1, design your API, implement it on Django using the Django Rest Framework and test the resulting increment. Your executable need only support a single registered product in Sprint 1. In general, the actions crossing the system boundary from actor to BetaTrax recorded as steps in your use case slices will indicate operations needed in your API.
Note: During Reading Week we will post an introduction to the Django Rest Framework.
Technical notes:
o User registration is not required in early MVP and MMP releases. You will register users through the Django Admin Interface
o Similarly, product registration is not part of Sprint 1. You will perform product registration through Django Admin.
o For convenience of testing and demos, it will be sufficient to configure Django to write all emails to the console or to a file. Django provides backends for both. This is not a constraint, however, and you are free to configure to use an actual mail server if you wish.
o Roughly track how long it takes to deliver each user story. This will be useful for planning future sprints.Tools: Git and GitHub
To support collaboration, you are required to use a version-control system (VCS) with remote repository or repositories to coordinate your implementation work. You know Git from our prerequisite courses and will use it for this project.
GitHub offers free public/private repositories with unlimited collaborators and all core features. That would be a good choice as a hosting service. Choose the free plan here:
https://github.com/pricing
Delivering Source Code:
Deliver your source code by zipping the root directory of your Django project. Do not include a .git directory or similar. Include a Readme file outlining any limitations of your Sprint 1 executable with respect to the requirements - for example, list any planned functionality that is missing or not working correctly.
Demo and Review
Our first review session will take place during the week of March 30. It will also serve as an additional checkpoint to ensure your team is not headed in the wrong direction. You will have the opportunity to select your preferred timeslot when the date is announced. We don't require every team member to be present. In the session you will discuss and demonstrate your progress. You are not required to give a presentation.
SUMMARY OF SPRINT 1 DELIVERABLES
Note: there are separate deadlines
Throwaway UI Storyboards for BetaTrax  Product Backlog before taking PBIs into the Sprint. Indicate which PBIs you will take into Sprint 1  Partial Domain Model  Source code and Readme file  List of team members' contributions
Handin Method: Deadlines:
Via Moodle, only one submission per team.
Storyboards: to be available by the end of March 19 ready for review with a representative of your client on March 20.
Revised Storyboards, Product Backlog, Partial Domain Model: March 26. 23:59
Source Code, Readme file and List of members contributions: March 29, 23:59.
(At the original deadline, March 26, we will release instructions for populating your application in preparation for the demo. We will give you a few days to ensure you can do this successfully. Also, since there is a quiz during the sprint, we understand you may need a little more time to work on the implementation. However, Sprint 2 will still begin on March 26 to enable some team members to begin working on it while others refine the Sprint 1 code.)

