COMP3297 Software Engineering School of Computing and Data Science
Department of Computer Science
Sprint 2 Task Sheet: BetaTrax
Sprint 2 Overview:
Thank you for your work during Sprint 1. We look forward to your demo in our Review Meeting next week.
Sprint 2 is straightforward since it simply follows the pattern of Sprint 1 to complete development of Release 1 of BetaTrax as a Minimum Marketable Product. By doing so you will clear the Release 1 Product Backlog.
Tasks for Sprint 2:
Backlog Refinement
Your backlog contains the remaining PBIs for Release 1, mostly as use case slices. If you have not included user authentication yet, you must add this functionality to the backlog now. Then, as in Sprint 1:
o Split any unsliced use cases. o Write all slices as one or more User Stories. Include a Confirmation section for each
of those Stories. And, new for Sprint 2: o Add a new column to your backlog labelled Estimate. For each PBI in the backlog,
estimate its relative size in Story Points and record your estimate in this column.
Note: You will continue to register users through Django Admin, however you are required to support product registration by Product Owner in Release 1. You may continue to write all emails to the console or to a file if you wish.
Sprint Planning
Decompose the stories and other PBIs you will bring into the Sprint into Tasks (Sub-Tasks if you are using Jira). Record the member responsible for completing each Task. For future planning, keep a note of the efforthours taken for each Task during the sprint.
Analysis: Domain Model
Again, as before but now working from your user stories for Sprint 2, identify any new conceptual classes and add them to your Domain Model together with their attributes and associations. You may also take the opportunity to revise your previous model before adding the new classes.
Implementation
Design the remaining APIs for Sprint 2 and their realizations. Implement and integrate them into your previous increment together with any changes needed to that increment. As in Sprint 1, deliver your source code by zipping the root directory of your Django project. Do not include a .git directory or similar. Include a Readme file outlining any limitations of your Sprint 2 executable with respect to the requirements.
SUMMARY OF SPRINT 2 DELIVERABLES
Product Backlog before taking PBIs into the Sprint.  Sprint Backlog showing the tasks resulting from decomposing the PBIs, and their allocation to members.  Revised and extended Partial Domain Model  Source code and Readme file  List of team members' contributions

Handin Method: Deadline:

Via Moodle, only one submission per team. April 13, 23:59

